Hello gentlemen, my name is Mati. I've
been a market maker for seven years
making more than 30 million euro for a
large investment bank and now I'm
running my own hedge fund where I auto
tomate every single one of my trading
strategies. on the side. I'm trying to
kick off this YouTube channel as a part
of a bigger project properly educate
retail traders beyond the misinformation
you find online. So, I would really
appreciate if you follow along and you
drop a random word in the comments to
make me and algorithm very happy. Let's
kick off. One of the biggest piece of
misinformation that I see online is that
strategies based on order flow cannot be
automated. And let's make this point
immediately clear. Order flow is by
definition data. Anything based on data
can be translated into code. And if you
translate it into code, you can automate
it. Let's take the concept of volume
delta as an example. Here on trading
view I open the 1 hour chart of ENQ the
NASDAQ 100 futures and each bubble shows
the imbalance between aggressive buyers
and aggressive sellers. The size
represent the strength and the color
shows the direction. Red if you are in
the presence of aggressive sellers and
green if you are in the presence of
aggressive buyers. Just looking at this,
you get the feeling of what's going on,
but you can extract much more
information under the surface. If you're
not quantifying it, testing it, and
building specific rules around it,
you're not trading the volume delta like
a professional would. Let's give a
definition of volume delta. The volume
delta is the net difference between
contracts traded at the ask and at the
bid and it is a live measure of
aggressive market behavior. In any
single market you have a bid and an ask.
The bid is the price at which the market
maker or anyone with a resting order in
the market is willing to buy at. The ask
is the price at which they're willing to
sell for. Since the delta is the
difference between the contracts traded
at the ask and at the bid. A positive
delta means that more buyers are
crossing the spread willing to pay
whatever price the market maker is
asking for. A negative delta on the
other hand means that more sellers are
hitting the bid. So there is a larger
selling pressure. Usually the delta
follows the price. When the delta is
positive, the price goes up. When the
delta is negative, the price goes down.
But when this behavior is not met, there
is often something interesting. If the
price goes up, but the delta weakens or
turns negative, we have what is defined
as buyer exhaustion. And when the price
falls but the delta stays strong or even
better it turns positive we have what is
defined as seller exhaustion. When this
happens this delta dislocation between
the direction of the price and the
direction of the delta. It might be a
precursor of a reversal just like it
happened here or up here. And it feels
intuitive when you visualize it. But you
cannot just trade it with your eyes. You
need data. And to work with data, we're
going to jump into multi charts. One of
the most powerful trading tools
available to retail traders. In multi
charts, let's open a new workspace and
let's load the past six years of ENQ
data, the NASDAQ 100 futures. Here I
wrote a code which visualize exactly the
same thing as we have seen in trading
view yet we have 100% the control over
it. Applying the code to the chart we
see the same representation we had on
trading view but now with the actual
delta values. In the study settings, you
can set the delta threshold. And in this
way, the higher you set it, the more you
filter. So you only see the strongest
buying and selling events. Now that we
visualize it, we can define our trading
rules and translate them into code. And
let's keep them intentionally very
simple just to make the example clear.
And the step is going to be a positive
delta dislocation at a key level. We're
going to open a long position if the
price is above the previous session
high. The last hour candle is negative.
So the price went down over the past
hour, but the volume delta in that
specific hour is positive. meaning that
the aggressive buyers are stepping in.
On top of that, we're going to require a
minimum threshold for our delta of 500.
That's it. These are the rules of our
trading strategy. If all these four
conditions are met, we go long. For
exit, we keep it equally simple. Just an
arbitrary take profit and stop-loss of
$10,000. And if neither the stop-loss
nor the takerit gets hit, we will close
the position at the end of the trading
session. So as a complete mechanical
strategy, our entry is going to be a
positive delta dislocation with the
price above the previous session high
and a delta larger or equal to 500. As
an exit, we have the takerit, the
stop-loss or an exit at the end of day.
No opinions, no guessing, just clean
rulebased execution. And what we do, we
translate all these rules into a piece
of code. And once we have this piece of
code, we apply it to our chart. As
expected, we do get a long position
exactly after the delta dislocation that
we pointed out before. And given the
fact that we applied this strategy to
this chart, we have all the trades over
the past six years, trades that met that
exact entry condition. Looking at the
results of this big test, we can already
see a positive drift in the equity
curve, we see that we win 61.3%
of the trades with a nice average trade
win of $1,183
with the winners more than compensating
our losing trades over this six years
period. Now notice something important
in our code and for our big test. We
picked the delta threshold, the profit
target and the stop loss completely
arbitrarily. To follow a proper process,
you should split your data between out
of sample and in sample. Optimize the
strategy in sample to find the
parameters that maximize your
performance and then validate the
parameters that you have found out of
sample to minimize the risk of
overfeitting. And once you have done
that, you might find a combination which
is robust that it does give you a better
net profit. And on top of that, it gives
you a better and more robust equity
curve. And once you have done all of
these, you found a good strategy that is
ready to trade live on your behalf. All
you have to do is to connect your multi
charts to your brokerage or prop firm
account. Click one button and enable the
automated execution. Now the computer is
going to trade for me. And this is a
very simple example on how you can
automate a strategy based on order flow.
So to answer the question to this video,
yes, you can automate order flow
strategies and you should. And what we
covered today is just scratching the
surface. There is a lot more you can do
with this. And if you found this
interesting, please follow the channel
and leave a comment because there is
much more to come.